Hi, my name is Stella. I work in IT services, and I'm just going to take a few minutes
today to tell you about some of the services. We provide for students here at the
University, your it account allows you to access most of the University services
such as on campus Wi-Fi. Email my Manchester, your coursework and lots more. You
will have already used the ID account manager as the first part of your registration,
but you can also use it to set up your account recovery details. Change your
Password and find out more information about your account, your it username might
look like a random jumble of letters and numbers now, but once you've typed in a
few times, you won't forget it.
The best way of getting Wi-Fi at the university is to use eduroam. This is a secure
International Wi-Fi, service available to all staff and students at the University
of Manchester. It could also let you connect to the internet at any University,
where eduroam is available.
Eduroam is the most convenient Network for students and staff after initial setup.
Eduroam remembers who you are so you don't need to type in your username and password
every time you access the network.
You can also look into the uom Wi-Fi network with your University details. However,
you'll have to log in every time you use this service. Whereas you only need to
set up eduroam. Once Hornet is our Halls of residence internet service in University
owned Halls. You can connect to the eduroam network, like you would anywhere else.
On campus wired connectivity is also available. If you need any help with internet
access and halls, there is a team of hornet reps.
A university student so you can answer your questions and solve your connectivity
problems, whether it's for your studies or leisure.
It support staff can help you with software setup, troubleshooting, and general
advice. We work closely with the libraries, IT staff and we're happy to advise you
about how to get set up, and using University services with your own equipment.
We know that smartphones and tablets are really important to our students. So we
can also help with setting up your University email on your phone. But probably
the topic we get asked to help with the most is setting up laptops phones and tablets
on our edge around. Wi-Fi network. We do have instructions on our website showing
you how to do it, but the support staff are more than happy to help you get set
up on Wi-Fi, if you need help with this.
Boots lecture, Theatres feature Recording Technology, which automatically uploads
lectures and other presentations, onto the video portal, allowing students to replay
revisits and revise them for a later date.
We have many student computers in our PC clusters across campus some of which are
available for any student to just jump on and use anytime. You can remotely connect
to some of them from your own computer or tablet. So you can use specialist University
software without having to visit a PC cluster in person.
All of you have University email address, which is used for a lot of University
related communication. I know you'll all have your own personal email accounts,
but it's a good idea to make sure you regularly. Check your University email. It's
a standard Microsoft 365 accounts, which you can access through a web browser or
the mail app on your phone.
And talking about Microsoft 365, students and staff, get a free copy of Microsoft
Office to use on their own personal equipment that includes word, PowerPoint Excel,
OneNote, and more feature, downloads your computer or mobile device. You can use
Microsoft teams for chat scores and collaboration on documents and files as well.
Also depends on your course, you might have other software available to you have
a chat with the school office or lecturers and their be able to point you in the
right direction.
Printing. Documents is very easy. You can print from your own laptop phone or tablet
or from one of our PC clusters. We've got lots of student printers spread across
the university and like the computers in the PC cluster. Many of these are available
for students to use. When you log into a cluster computer. You can click print in
the application. You want to print from tap, your student card, on any of the Xerox
multifunction devices, which are a combined printer scanner and copier and scanner.
Select the document that you want to print.
One of the most important things I want to talk about today. We've got online storage,
and we suggest that you use it. We've all got USB flash drives, and they're really
convenient, but they can get lost, and then get broken and they can get stolen.
The same goes for think computers. So, you should always make sure you keep a copy
of your work on your online network storage, which you can access through the documents
folder on a computer. In one of our PC clusters, all through the tools menu in my
Manchester.
You've also got one terabyte of storage space with OneDrive which you can access
through your web browser. If you're working on documents, you may actually prefer
to edit them in the web-based version of Word, PowerPoint Excel and so on.
The have unfortunately being cases in the past where students have lost the only
copy of their work, because didn't back it up and schools, won't accept this as
a legitimate reason for not handing in your work. You should always keep multiple
copies of your work in multiple locations. We really don't want to see you lose
days months weeks or even years of work because it's the only copy that you had.
Towards the end of this year. We will be introducing something called two-factor
authentication as an additional step, when logging into certain University Systems,
and services, including University email, Microsoft 365, and Blackboard, this extra
layer of security has been in place for staff and postgraduate researchers for nearly
four years now. And he's been extended to all students to provide further protection.
Our two Factor authentication Service is provided by Duo and easiest way to use
it is by
A mobile phone using the Geo app. When the time comes, you'll receive emails from
us about what you'll need to do and how to get set up in advance.
There's lots more information and using all of our services on our website. WE Post
news and announcements all the time through Twitter. So if there's something that
you need that you need to be aware of, there's a place to get the latest news and
updates. Although it's not constantly monitored. There are other appropriate methods
of support if you need, I see help.
You can get in touch with us to ask for help, ask questions, or reports a fault
or some general feedback. We have a telephone line, which runs 24/7 and there's
the support portal, which allows you to log a query through your web browser with
lots of information and step-by-step instructions. And there's also it walk up support
at the main library and the Alan Gilbert learning Commons.
Finally, and importantly, an extremely important thing to remember is that your
it account is valuable and criminals, know it in the past and many people from various
universities. Including ourselves have received emails from scammers who were trying
to get various personal details about people, like you such as it, login details
or banking information. We can't block a lot of these fake emails, but unfortunately,
there's no way of blocking 100% of them. So always be suspicious of any messages
which trying to get pregnant.
Private information from you that goes for University details and your personal
details to if you get emailed you're not sure about. It's always best to check with
your supervisor school office or us.